# Project Documentation

The project includes several levels of documentation, including:

- Markdown files in the `documentation` directory
- API documentation generated by PHPDoc, built in the `/web/landing/build/documentation/` directory
- Usage examples in the `examples` directory, divided into categories and topics

# Project structure

This project is developed as a monorepo, which means that it contains multiple packages in a single repository.
The project is structured as follows:

```
├── bin
├── build
├── documentation
├── examples
├── phpdoc
├── src
│   ├── adapter
│   ├── bridge
│   ├── cli
│   ├── core
│   ├── functions.php
│   ├── lib
│   └── tools
├── tools
├── var
├── vendor
└── web
    └── landing
```

- `bin` contains the executable scripts used during development
- `build` contains the build artifact, currently only the PHAR file. To build the PHAR file, you can run
  `composer build:phar`.
- `documentation` contains the documentation files of the entire project but also of each package separately. This
  folder is used to generate the documentation website by converting markdown into html.
- `examples` contains example code that demonstrates how to use the project. Those examples are also displayed on the
  documentation website.
- `phpdoc` contains the API documentation generated by PHPDoc. It can be built by running `composer build:docs:api`.
- `src` contains the source code of the project, which is divided into several packages:
    - `adapter` adapters are packages that provides implementations for different building blocks of the DataFrame like
      `Extractor`, `Loader`, `Transformer`
    - `bridge` contains bridges to connect flow libs with other libraries and frameworks.
    - `cli` contains the command line interface application.
    - `core` contains the core functionality of the project, it holds the entire DataFrame.
    - `lib` contains standalone libraries that can be used independently of the project, like `doctrine-dbal-bulk` and `parquet`.
    - `tools` contains tools used during development.
- `tools` contains tools used during development, like the `phpstan`, `phpunit` and others, to not pollute project autoloader and
  to keep tools outside of project dependencies.
- `var` contains temporary files, like cache and logs.
- `vendor` contains the dependencies of the project, managed by Composer.
- `web`
    - `landing` contains the landing page of the project, which is a symfony application that is automatically dumped to static HTML files
      and served by GitHub Pages. It has it's own composer.json that defines the dependencies for the landing page and commands.

## Monorepo packages

Each package is structured in a very similar way, with the following structure:

```
src/core
└── etl
    ├── CONTRIBUTING.md
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── composer.json
    ├── src
    │   └── Flow
    └── tests
        └── Flow
```

Tests are usually divided into:

- `Unit` - `src/core/etl/tests/Flow/ETL/Tests/Integration`
- `Integraiton` - `src/core/etl/tests/Flow/ETL/Tests/Unit`

In some cases on that level, there might be some test helpers, like:

- `Doubles` - mocks / stubs / fakses used across tests
- `Benchark` - performance tests written using `phpbench` library

### Packages Dependencies

The rule is that we should keep as few dependencies as possible. But when we are adding dependency, it should be
as wide as possible, so we don't block other projects by our constraints.

Packages from this monorepo can depend on each other, but ther are strict rules about that:

- `lib` - libraries can depend only on other `lib` packages, never on anything else.
- `adapter` - adapters can depend on `lib` / `bridge` and they always depend on `core`. Adpaters should not depend on `cli`
- `bridge` - bridges can depend only on `lib`
- `cli` - CLI can depend on `core`, `lib` and `adapter` and `bridge`, `cli` always depends on `core`
- `core` - core can depend on `lib` or `bridge`, but should should never depend on `adapter`, or `cli`

The above rules apply also on namespaces. So for example Adapter for `CSV` can't depend on `Parquet` adapter.

# PHP Versions

This project supports only the latest three PHP versions, for example: 8.2, 8.3, and 8.4. (assuming that 8.4 is the latest version).
Development is done using the lowest supported version, which is currently PHP 8.2.
The project is tested against all three versions, so you can use any of them for development.

# Tools

There are several tools used in this project to help with development, testing, and building the project.
Most of them are available as Composer scripts, so you can run them using `composer <script-name>`.

- `composer static:analyze` runs static analysis tools like PHPStan to check the code for errors and potential issues.
- `composer cs:php:fix` runs the PHP CS Fixer and Rector to automatically fix coding standards issues in the code.
    - `composer test` runs all tests in the project, including unit tests, functional tests, and integration tests. It's a combination of all other test commands:
    - `composer test:core`
        - `composer test:cli`
        - `composer test:lib:array-dot`
        - ...
        - `composer test:bridge:filesystem-azure`
        - ...
        - `composer test:adapter:xml`
        - ...
        - `composer test:benchmark` runs the benchmark tests to measure the performance of the certain parts of the project.
        - `composer test:website` runs the tests for the website
        - `composer test:examples` runs all examples
        - `composer test:mutation` runs the mutation tests to check the quality of the tests.

# Coding Standards

The whole project is developed as an object oriented code, with a focus on clean code principles.
The coding standards are defined and automatically enforced by the PHP CS Fixer and Rector.

Each package comes with a DSL (Domain Specific Language) that provides an easy, functional API.
All functions defined in DSL (usually in `functions.php` files) are following the same codding standards as PHP code.
snake_case is used for function names and arguments in DSL. The only other place where snake_case is used is in the
tests, where it is used for test method names.

